hey guys okay started a little cloud
cloud recording now so we should be good
to go
all right cool I start with just a quick
sort of check in on where everybody's at
and what we've been up to
I've just been sort of recovering from
Barcelona I guess we haven't really done
one of these though since Barcelona
started so a lot of stuff shifted around
in Barcelona um not necessarily because
of any activity that was there but
mainly because like me and Eric had some
time to sync up and I had some time to
think up with other people so that's
making its way into the planning stuff
now but sort of TLDR on it is university
to will use the composite stuff which
changes the timeline that we need for
the composite things and a lot of the
sort of that means shifting some
resources to rust and webassembly
for effectively the rest of the year
that's the sort of big change
oh yeah and Hannah's coming over to do
the selected stuff as well as graph sync
the protocol work which frees up air to
spend more time on schemas and the
priority for cement in general is just
like bumped way way up
so if schemas encode Jen in a big red
ball kind of bumped up in Prior that's
my update Eric yeah basically that so it
seems like so we got some really cool
positive feedback the some of the most
recent drafts of the schema of the
selectors system have been tossed out in
front of people in the community at the
ipfs camp
and these effects were based on the
students system as well and somebody was
able to look at the latest draft of that
selectors PR for now and in its
schematic form and make sense of it
which honestly like completely
bamboozled me in the most positive way
possible I didn't actually think this
was very approachable and apparently it
was because in the next couple of hours
that person came back to me with a
couple of questions by like is this a
palace electric does this do it I think
it does and in the case of little
squares of this whole zone yeah actually
so that was really cool and I think a
selector specs are kinda bottom track as
a result of these forms of feedback and
I think some of the other folks like the
foul coin guys seem to be looking at
doing a bunch of coins back work that
they're on in the next couple of weeks
for my ability schemes so quite a lot of
attention be that so that's kind of
exciting and he's gonna put a lot of
pressure on us to like deliver the thing
and do succeed at user goals in the next
I don't know time T so yeah I'm really
excited about that and also it does seem
to feed into
okay so I see again
so I mainly was working on spec stuff
data structure spec work I've got a
second pull request in for a vector type
got some changes of need to make to the
reshma III haven't really figured out a
pastor landing these things it seems
that they need more engagement to really
to to land them but I guess I'm I'm okay
with them sitting open but I feel like
the hashmap one kin lands you tucked
that one kid out a little bit there was
some there were some comments last week
from Jeremy that that need some
experimenting so and then mmm is also
that Oh that conversation about context
and parameters it's just that I get so
frustrated with that conversation
because it's I know that I think I
understand the desire behind it but it's
like we don't have tools to do this
stuff right now I just want to do I want
to do stuff with these data structures
and you know I can't do stuff with them
with this idealized version of of how
they should all fit together when we
don't have the bits to do that that's
what it seems to me anyway and so it's
not one of those discussions I just
which would get results somehow so that
I can I can be told how best to use
these things so by my parameters do you
mean the parameters they get encoded
into the root lock or parameters they
get passed into well both because the
the the comment from Jeremy was about
the parameters not being there at all
and that was the conversation you had
sort of half dropped into because I had
I mentioned the work you were doing but
that that if I interpret the comment
right was that we shouldn't need the
parameters in the root block at all
because that should be in the context of
this thing
you need you should you know the fact
that you got here should means you
should know what this thing is no no no
yeah I think two different things are
getting confused there so you have if
one thing which is like the definition
of the data structure which is
effectively like the same thing for
every one of these hashmaps regardless
of what those parameters are right so
this is just like hey this is the name
of this thing and you know at some point
in the future here's like the web
assembly function for now it's just
literally like this is a special thing
this is as far as like the parameters
for the actual algorithms those should
be included encoded into the route block
always well I mean look doesn't that
comment to me doesn't sound like and so
you need to go back and look at that
comment because that's not what I'm
rehearing from there anyway without
without a concrete appraisal for change
I can't do it well hold on
so do we I think that we have consensus
like between the three of us that like
the parameters should be encoded in the
route block right paren like algorithmic
parameters right harakiri
maybe I think I understand the
communication bug at least I just think
if we get it because like I'd like to
merge the spec in draft form and then
iterate on this particular problem
totally agree
even if we just like add a note that
like hey the sections under discussion
or whatever I'm adding a bunch of this
to the cosmic spec to do just like we're
still actively discussing blah blah just
that we can get something like in
because ideally I'd like like to just
get it merged so that we can have these
discussions as separate pr's rather than
like this one big PR that's getting kind
of hairy too to really get through
yeah yeah so like you know if the
implementation that you you've worked on
has the parameters and come to the
roadblock
I would just put that in the spec put a
note that like hey we're discussing this
still and then merge it and then if
Jeremy specifically wants a way to not
encode the parameters and select infer
some kind of default behavior then like
he can start a PR for that or somebody
can start up here for that we can
discuss with that way would be like my
ideal solution to this yeah okay I mean
okay I mean if someone has a language
for that then that would be good because
other what otherwise it's like we're
discussing this but I don't even I don't
even fully understand why we're
discussing it it just doesn't come with
that but anyway I saw I also started to
I'm interested in using these things to
do some practical stuff with and I was
looking at the let last word on there
actually in yesterday as well as looking
at the question of temp repair is that
when you're using these things and doing
hearing mutations and you know you're
creating lots of intermediate blocks
that you're gonna throw away and
potentially having very large data
structures so you can have potentially a
lot of these things I was looking at the
question of block storage when you're
doing these mutations so that you can
both throw away and collect later state
efficiently what does that look like so
it's just you know just playing with
that little piece of the puzzle to see
if there was a an obvious obvious
efficient way to do that because I want
to I'd like to start using them for some
ideas but yeah that's a rabbit hole I
want to get it too too far down because
there's there's easy there's there's
easy versions of that that we can use
but anyway and then the other thing was
two on my plate was coming up to spend
some more quality time with go
that's really the main thing on my plate
I think right now so that's me how you
doing
howdy y'all
good good good you have any specific
sort of questions or feedback
no mostly I'm just lurking I've been
working a lot with the did specification
so the dige decentralized identifiers
and we're using a lot of matrix
parameters and since my IP ID solution
is built on IP LD there's a lot of IP LD
selectors that would be abstracted and
used dereferencing with these matrix
parameters in a URL syntax that actually
would ultimately be I've killed these
selectors underneath so I'm keeping it
close here to the ground as far as where
you got what direction you guys are
going so I can abstract it into be an
interoperable standard with other dig
methods cool yeah Eric you you pushed or
is that still a cool request some
changes to the selectors like recently
yeah the latest of selector stuff is in
the ER in the specs I think it's called
selectors for you one because that's
roughly the version number I'm from
mostly zero anyway the one Pierre that's
open is the latest yeah I think we were
playing round in Barcelona about
abstracting that into just basically a
CID that is the base on that didn't of
the expand all dexplex editor at JSON
but then it's actually kept in a
properly formatted URL is to separate it
with a matrix parameters reserved name
equals the CID
and and that makes it interoperable I'll
give you you I suppose here's an example
of what we're working on with the dig
method let's see maybe I need to turn
off my IP efest nodes so so that it's
actually the semicolon is actually is
what Tim berners-lee originally
identified as being matrix parameters
and you actually can have multiple
semicolons and so and here the the you
that did is the the first three segments
it's separated by full colons so did
example and that make identifiers so
that's the did with a semicolon and then
the matrix parameters after it identify
the content and and this goes back to a
blog post by tumorous lee back in the
1990's which there can be multiple
semicolons that separate matrix
parameters and you're saying the cid
that you want to use is going to be the
selector encoded into a block no no that
would just be the URL so the fully okay
URL would be here actually give you an
example so let me give you gonna find my
presentation there's just a way of
abstracting it and they the JSON sent at
the Jason which is the IP LD selectors
would be cebe or serialized and turn
into a cid and then dead basically that
would be the value that you'd put after
the equals sign like something you can
do I'm indifferent to whether or not
it's a good or useful idea I guess
things I've spent Branson it's on lately
yeah it's just mainly like let's make
sure that the select respect of a beer
off in the direction that becomes
impossible to do any of this it's
currently being mainly driven by the
graphs and stuff so it's quite a
different use case so make sure that
they digital but I think you need some
metadata in the pointer to it right to
know that it's a selector to execute so
you'd rather put that leg it would
either be in the D ID Earl form that
says like you know selector equals this
CID or it would need to be a CID with
some metadata and that's it like we've
been talking to a manhole select that
whole context thing if the semantic
context of D ID implies that the string
of the hash in this position is a
selector then right right yeah that
would work too that's uh that's kind of
scary
yeah usually it's not upgradeable right
like but yeah you have we have that
service type you will hub in there it
looks like so like you know if you you
have these other parameters in the D ID
you could tweak to say you know when you
have this is not a selector lever okay
that make sense
never mind that I need to kick off the
discussion about pointers get that
started okay cool all right I'm good
anybody else have anything that they
want to talk about in the last eight
minutes here before you okay
I think the other thing that I have been
working on is in the JSON schema work
for the did methods and I think um what
might be really helpful is
a very good an issue filed this we if we
can get IP LD submitted as an I as a
valid scheme name for a fully formatted
URI and then you can do some pretty cool
stuff with schemas so actually like you
can have self describing schemas with
that without a authority so I'll give
you an example of the Eskimo
how can you see that all right that's
face well I'm sorry I have a feeling in
parallel to this train of thought that
we're gonna want to talk more about the
context concepts as well because that
seems like it's been at the root of the
function she's recently so contacts as
far as json-ld context or contact okay
yeah I don't know what that means
context says it's been discussed in
basically aspects PR 130 and some of
that ham specs it's it's a word we've
been throwing around in some discussions
lately that has not necessarily reached
total agreement on its meaning yet so
yeah it seems like there's there's to
sort of separate contacts right like
there's um there's the hey I already
know what this thing is from somewhere
else right like like the fat point of
discussion gets to that but then even
within the discussion when you hit like
intermediary nodes you have a context
that you carry over from prior nodes and
yeah I don't know if either of these map
anywhere near the JSON that leaves no
gotcha
all right
yeah so this example is just a the json
schema for the verifiable credentials
stuff and in the ID is actually is it's
probably formatted IP LD syntax then
actually it is you even though it's the
this it doesn't exist in this when you
dereference it and actually get this
from IP LD it's at least resolvable just
a schema infer any kind of transport no
Jason application JSON so sorry that's
just yes in mime type no so this is
actually the identity the ID of the the
field doesn't necessarily mean that it's
resolvable so this is a I can give it a
random number a UUID but basically since
I mean this is resolvable to a dag
Tibor sterilize to json it itself
describe its it says this this is the
idea of this thing
and so when you're doing definitions and
so down below here there's i'm
referencing here yeah so in the
reference section here i'm referencing
the definitions up above and in jason
pointers the hash symbol references this
document but there's no reason why this
can't be any value or uri so right now
the version 7 of json schema uses the
syntax but if IP
LT were actually a valid i in a scheme
name then that would be a rather than
have this ID here you could actually
have any your
I I just I'd like the only thing that I
wonder about is that unlike other scheme
names there's no transport inferred by
IPL B so like it's an identifier but it
doesn't necessarily tell you how to get
it whereas most schemes that I can think
of what would be implying how you go and
get the data
um like then yeah the scheme actually
gives you some kind of context on how to
get it mm-hmm so it's just like a
difference to to think about where's
like ipfs actually does in for you know
a set of transports to go charlie
resolved mmm but like in jason schema
the idea is not you're not supposed to
necessarily be able to resolve it so a
lot of people actually do resolve it and
if you put Jason schemas even in like
this vs Microsoft code visual code those
do try to actually go out and go to http
resource and actually download them but
they're not technically supposed to yeah
it's supposed to be that you have all
your schemas and you can reference your
different schemas a lot of them actually
if you have them in the same folder
they're supposed to resolve you know it
with relative naming but I think using
this IP LD solution might be more
elegant and simple and self describing
in standalone without having a Thorat
ativ source and sounds like an IPL
debased resolution system inside this
other schema system would behave well
but it would be a good actor inside of a
system which permits both good and
ridiculously comically uselessly bad
actors in the same system and I kind of
don't know why I'm time thinking about
that how often
so I know that some Seema systems are
actually going and resolving all those
are old like you said my muscles any of
the Jason LD stuff but back when I
actually tried to do some RTF stuff it
got to the point where you would just
use them as string identifiers you
wouldn't actually go and try to resolve
any of the URLs
once you've done four different schemas
is that still the case in Jason Aldean
most in time that people don't actually
go out and get the discrimination so
yeah so the URI for like over here in
the other windows so this or a G
credentials v1 that is resolvable but
it's resolvable in if you just we get it
yeah actually I think I have it or curl
it
it is w3c the headers actually are wrong
unless they fixed it so the headers are
like octet octet Street yeah so content
type at that stream so it's not JSON so
and if it were application JSON then
Jason LD parsers would be happy about it
but this is just raw octet streams okay
so the the reference schemas for Jason
LD don't implement themselves correctly
and w3.org that's great that's awesome
okay I'm gonna stop the recording now